# Data Export

## How are binary interactions selected for export to UniProtKB/GOA records?

All binary interactions evidences in the IntAct database, including those generated by Spoke expansion of co-complex data, are clustered to produce a non- redundant set of protein pairs. Each binary pair is then scored, using a simple addition of the cumulated value of a weighted score for the interaction detection method and the interaction type for each interaction evidence associated with that binary pair. Only experimental data is scored, inferred interactions, for example, would not be scored, and any low confidence data, or data manually tagged by a curator for exclusion from the process, are also not scored. Isoforms and post-processed protein chains are regarded as individual proteins for scoring purposes. We will, in future, export negative information, particularly for isoforms when one isoform of a protein behaves differently from another.

Score weightings were determined using the PSI-MI CV \([available here](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/ontology-lookup/browse.do?ontName=MI)\) hierarchy i.e



| Interaction Detection Method | Weighting |
| :--- | :--- |
| Biochemical | 3 |
| Biophysical | 3 |
| Protein complementation Assay \(PCA\) | 2 |
| Imaging Techniques | 0.6 |

| Interaction Type | Weighting |
| :--- | :--- |
| Association | 1 |
| Physical Association | 2 |
| Direct Association \(and child terms\) | 5 |
| Colocalization | 0.2 |

**Example 1 :**   
  
**Protein A - Protein B** – the interaction has been shown by one yeast two-hybrid experiment and one coimmunoprecipitation as part of an affinity complex from a cellular environment.   
1xY2H \(PCA\) + Physical interaction = 2+2 =4   
1x coimmunopreciptiation + Association = 3+1 =4   
Total score = 8

**Example 2 :**   
  
**Protein C - Protein D** – the interaction has been shown by two yeast two-hybrid experiment, by one GST pulldown in vitro and by one X-ray crystal.   
2xY2H \(PCA\) + Physical interaction = 2\(2+2\) =8   
1x pulldown + direct interaction = 3+5 =8   
1x x-ray crystal + direct interaction = 8   
Total score = 24

Once the interactions have been scored, a cut-off filter of 9 has been established, below which the interaction is not exported to UniProtKB and to the Gene Ontology annotation files. Additional rules ensure that any protein pair scoring above 9 must also include at least one evidence of a binary pair, excluding spoke expanded data, before export to UniProtKB/GOA.

These criteria ensure that

* Only **experimental data** is used for making the decision to export the protein pair to UniProtKB/GOA as a **true binary interacting** pair
* The export decision is always based on at least **two** pieces of **experimental data**. A single evidence cannot score highly enough to trigger an export
* An export cannot be triggered if the protein pair only ever co-occurs in larger complexes, there must be **at least one** evidence that the proteins are probably in **physical contact**.

Although these are stringent criteria, it is believed this will make the highest possible quality data available to UniProtKB and GO users. It is our intention to add the binary pairs annotated by other IMEx consortium members as part of the IMEx project to this process in the near future, to increase the data exported out to UniProtKB and GOA. The IntAct group are also happy to make this data available to any other databases who wish to import and display it. Please contact [intact-help@ebi.ac.uk](mailto:intact-help@ebi.ac.uk) to discuss the most appropriate format for your resource.

